---
layout:     post
title:      The minimum viable journey
date:       2014-10-07
summary:    Creating a minimum viable product.
categories:
published: true
---

I have been interested for a long time in mobile app development. After having
toyed with a few "hello world" sized applications I was looking for a full sized
project. I was however, looking for one that I was able to complete. I wanted to
get to a point where I can actually release a *minimum viable product*.

### tl;dr

* Find a problem you care about, ideally a problem you have.
* Identify the minimum you can do to solve this problem.
* Do JUST that and seek feedback. Please 
  [grab a copy of WindCast](https://market.android.com/details?id=com.feer.windcast) from the
  Play store and let me know what you think!

### Solve a problem you care about

I started to look for a problem or task in **my** daily life that I could solve.
I found myself annoyed when trying to find out what the direction and strength 
of the wind has been over the past few hours. While there are websites available
for this (at least in Australia), they take real time data collected at weather
stations around the country and show it in graph or tabular form. These are
great from a computer, but the current offerings have some issues:

* Often hard to use on a mobile platform
* Have limited locations available
* Time consuming to browse to the location you care about.

As a surfer it is often a point of interest to find out what the wind is doing,
or has been doing over the last few hours at your local break. It would be
relevant for some other activities too:

* Surfing
* Kite/Wind Surfing
* Sailing
* Fishing
* Wind power generation? Ok, I might be reaching a bit.

This seemed like a problem I could solve, and there is plenty of room for new
features. I came up with **WindCast**.

### Quick! Limit scope!

As soon as I started thinking about this, wonderful thoughts of possible
features started flowing in. *This is great* I thought! After a few weeks of
working on WindCast during small pockets of time between work, family, and other
hobbies, I realised I needed to narrow the scope if I was ever to release it.

So we want to narrow in on the minimum viable for release. I also didn't want to
lose all the "great ideas" I was having. What if something became absolutely
vital to release? In order to track work I won't do (at least right now) and
work I **need** to do to release the application I set up a
[Trello](https://trello.com/) board. This allowed me to to prioritise work, and
have a clear map of what needed to be done. It is also light weight, and does
not require any "process".

### Get it out there, seek feedback

I managed to finish off Windcast and released it to the Google Play store. I
initially tried to run an alpha / beta, this has not resulted in much (any?)
feedback, perhaps they are happy. I have now released this to the public and
hope to gain some more feedback.

Since this was really a learning exercise for me, I have happily released this
free of charge and free of ads. Please
[grab a copy of WindCast from the Play store](https://market.android.com/details?id=com.feer.windcast)
and let me know what you think.
