---
layout:     post
title:      First
date:       2014-09-27
summary:    First blog post using Jekyll
comments:   true
categories:
---

So I made a blog... yep. This is the first post. Where (as I have noticed, seems
to be common practice) I will describe and reason about the choices I made
about the blog platform.

I am using [Jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll) to create a static site
hosted on github pages. I like this because it aligns well with a work flow I am
familiar with and enjoy. It also means that the tools to create the site are all
open source. I like being able to dig a little deeper, in order to find out how
things work.

### Themes of a blog post

In order to learn my way around [Jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll) I
decided I would first install a custom theme and then customise it to be my own.
I picked [Pixyll](https://github.com/johnotander/pixyll) because of its clean
bold look. I also like that there is a focus on content and and the theme does
not rely on an arty image header or fancy menus etc.

### What use for a name?

I decided I wanted to border the content, to have it look somewhat like a page
of paper. Along with this I wanted the navigation links to appear in line with
the site title and tag line. It was important that this all works well and looks
good on mobile (or other smaller screens). I adjusted the navigation links
so that they will drop to a new line, and center under the title when a smaller
screen is used. Finally I decided that these modifications meant that the theme
was no longer true to its original incarnation. In homage to its prior form I
dubbed the theme **Pixyl-Paper**.
