---
layout:     post
title:      The minimum viable journey
date:       2014-09-30
summary:    Creating a minimum viable product.
categories:
published: true
---

I have been interested for a long time in mobile app development. Having toyed
with a few "hello world" sized applications was looking for a project that I was
able to complete. That is, get to a point where I can actually release a
 *minimum viable product*.

 **tl;dr**

* Find a problem you care about, ideally a problem you have.
* Identify the minimum you can do to solve this problem.
* Do JUST that and get feedback.

### Solve a problem you care about

I started to look for a problem or task in **my** daily life that I could solve.
In the end I decided that I would like to try to optimise the process of finding
out what the wind is doing *right now*. As a surfer it is often a point of interest
to find out what the wind is doing, or has been doing over the last few hours at
your local break.

There are websites available for this (at least in Australia), they take real
time data collected at weather stations around the country and show it in graph
or tabular form. These are great from a computer, but the current offerings have
some issues:

* Often hard to use on a mobile platform
* Have limited locations available
* Time consuming to browse to the location you care about.

This seemed like a problem I could solve, and there is plenty of room for new
features. I came up with **WindCast**.

### Quick! Limit scope!

As soon as I started thinking about this, wonderful thoughts of possible
features started flowing in. *"This is great!"* I thought, but after a few weeks
working on this during the *in-between-times* I realised I needed to narrow scope in
order to ever reach release.

At this point, the obvious answer was to limit the scope of the project to the
minimum viable for release. I didnt want to lose all the "great ideas" I was
having, what if something became absolutely vital to release. In order to track
work I wont do (at least right now) and work I **need** to do to release the
application I set up a [Trello](https://trello.com/) board. This allowed me to
to prioritise work, and have a clear map of what needed to be done. It is also
light weight, and does not require any "process".

### Get it out there

I managed to finish off Windcast and released it to the Google Play store. I
initially tried to run an alpha / beta, this has not resulted in much (any?)
feedback, perhaps they are happy.

Since this was really a learning excercise for me, I have happily release this free of
charge and of ads. Please
[grab a copy of WindCast from the Play store](https://market.android.com/details?id=com.feer.windcast)
and let me know what you think.
